Brandon Sainiak Producer Consumer Documentation

When creating this project I first worked on establishing a shared memory space for the two processes.
This consisted of the inclusion of const character pointers that would be shared between the processes, 3 semaphores, a shared memory descriptor, and a table used for the shared memory
After the declaration of the variables I opened the shared memory space using shm_open and truncated the size. It was a challenge to understand how to open a shared memory space at first.
I then mapped the table to the two processes and initialized the 3 semaphores. Mapping the table to the two different processes was a decent challenge to understand but I feel was important to learn
The three semaphores that I used were a fill semaphore, available semaphore, and mutex binary semaphore.
The fill semaphore was used to indicate when a value was produced and was available to be consumed.
It also served as a condition to stop the consumer from consuming nothing.
The available semaphore was used to indicate the amount of space that was available for in the table for data to be produced.
The mutex semaphore was used as a bianry semaphore to implement mutual exclusion within the program.
I felt using these semaphores was a good way to take what I've learned in lectures and apply it to a problem.
After the semaphores were implemented the producer and consumer needed to have their individual loops implemented.
For the producer I used sem_wait for the available and mutex semaphores in order to decrement them and enter the producer's critical section.
After this I added a value to the table, printed a statement to indicate a value was produced, and then used sem_post to exit the critical section.
When working with the consumer I set a maximum amount of times the consumer could loop to prevent the producer and consumer from executing an infinite number of times.
I then used sem_wait on fill to ensure there was data to consume and sem_wait on mutex in order to enter the critical section.
Overall this project was a good challenge and allowed me to understand how to use semaphores better.